demos/android-login/README.md, before:

# Android Login Demo

This is a demo of an android app using Google OneTap/Native Sign-In & WebView for authentication

**Available platforms:** Android

**Modules used:** GoTrue

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26686035/235766941-6a62c415-e07e-4d18-9706-0a246e6821eb.mp4

# Configuration

> If you want to implement Native Google Auth in your Android app and use Jetpack Compose/Compose Multiplatform, take a look at the [ComposeAuth](https://github.com/supabase-community/supabase-kt/tree/master/plugins/ComposeAuth) plugin

Then you need to specify your supabase url and key in [supabaseModule.kt](https://github.com/supabase-community/supabase-kt/blob/master/demos/android-login/common/src/commonMain/kotlin/io/github/jan/supabase/common/di/supabaseModule.kt)

If you want the Native Google Sign In,
1. Create a project in the [Google Cloud dashboard](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Create OAuth credentials for both a web (using your supabase callback url https://SUPABASE_ID.supabase.co/auth/v1/callback) and android application (using `io.github.jan.supabase.android` as package name and SHA1-certificate which you can get using `gradlew signingReport`)
3. Put the web OAuth client id and the web oauth secret in the supabase dashboard for the google provider and the android one to the authorized client ids
4. Put in the `web` client id `supabaseModule.kt` (not the android one)

For Spotify login you obviously need to enable that in the Supabase Dashboard, but you can replace that with any provider you want

# Running

Use the IDE to run the app.

Commit message:

Deprecate the android login sample

demos/android-login/README.md, after:

# Deprecation note
This sample has been deprecated. Checkout the [official video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P_jZMDmodG4&pp=ygUWc3VwYWJhc2UgZ29vZ2xlIGtvdGxpbg%3D%3D) on how to use the Google Credential Manager to natively sign in with Google or checkout [Compose Auth](/plugins/ComposeAuth)
# Android Login Demo

This is a demo of an android app using Google OneTap/Native Sign-In & WebView for authentication

**Available platforms:** Android

**Modules used:** GoTrue

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26686035/235766941-6a62c415-e07e-4d18-9706-0a246e6821eb.mp4

# Configuration

> If you want to implement Native Google Auth in your Android app and use Jetpack Compose/Compose Multiplatform, take a look at the [ComposeAuth](https://github.com/supabase-community/supabase-kt/tree/master/plugins/ComposeAuth) plugin

Then you need to specify your supabase url and key in [supabaseModule.kt](https://github.com/supabase-community/supabase-kt/blob/master/demos/android-login/common/src/commonMain/kotlin/io/github/jan/supabase/common/di/supabaseModule.kt)

If you want the Native Google Sign In,
1. Create a project in the [Google Cloud dashboard](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Create OAuth credentials for both a web (using your supabase callback url https://SUPABASE_ID.supabase.co/auth/v1/callback) and android application (using `io.github.jan.supabase.android` as package name and SHA1-certificate which you can get using `gradlew signingReport`)
3. Put the web OAuth client id and the web oauth secret in the supabase dashboard for the google provider and the android one to the authorized client ids
4. Put in the `web` client id `supabaseModule.kt` (not the android one)

For Spotify login you obviously need to enable that in the Supabase Dashboard, but you can replace that with any provider you want

# Running

Use the IDE to run the app.
